# Go API client for openapi

Local HTTP based API for managing and inspecting a cloud-hypervisor virtual machine.

## Overview
This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the [OpenAPI-spec](https://www.openapis.org/) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 0.3.0
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.GoClientCodegen

## Installation

Install the following dependencies:

```shell
go get github.com/stretchr/testify/assert
go get golang.org/x/oauth2
go get golang.org/x/net/context
```

Put the package under your project folder and add the following in import:

```golang
import sw "./openapi"
```

To use a proxy, set the environment variable `HTTP_PROXY`:

```golang
os.Setenv("HTTP_PROXY", "http://proxy_name:proxy_port")
```

## Configuration of Server URL

Default configuration comes with `Servers` field that contains server objects as defined in the OpenAPI specification.

### Select Server Configuration

For using other server than the one defined on index 0 set context value `sw.ContextServerIndex` of type `int`.

```golang
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), sw.ContextServerIndex, 1)
```

### Templated Server URL

Templated server URL is formatted using default variables from configuration or from context value `sw.ContextServerVariables` of type `map[string]string`.

```golang
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), sw.ContextServerVariables, map[string]string{
	"basePath": "v2",
})
```

Note, enum values are always validated and all unused variables are silently ignored.

### URLs Configuration per Operation

Each operation can use different server URL defined using `OperationServers` map in the `Configuration`.
An operation is uniquely identified by `"{classname}Service.{nickname}"` string.
Similar rules for overriding default operation server index and variables applies by using `sw.ContextOperationServerIndices` and `sw.ContextOperationServerVariables` context maps.

```
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), sw.ContextOperationServerIndices, map[string]int{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": 2,
})
ctx = context.WithValue(context.Background(), sw.ContextOperationServerVariables, map[string]map[string]string{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": {
		"port": "8443",
	},
})
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://localhost/api/v1*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*DefaultApi* | [**BootVM**](docs/DefaultApi.md#bootvm) | **Put** /vm.boot | Boot the previously created VM instance.
*DefaultApi* | [**CreateVM**](docs/DefaultApi.md#createvm) | **Put** /vm.create | Create the cloud-hypervisor Virtual Machine (VM) instance. The instance is not booted, only created.
*DefaultApi* | [**DeleteVM**](docs/DefaultApi.md#deletevm) | **Put** /vm.delete | Delete the cloud-hypervisor Virtual Machine (VM) instance.
*DefaultApi* | [**PauseVM**](docs/DefaultApi.md#pausevm) | **Put** /vm.pause | Pause a previously booted VM instance.
*DefaultApi* | [**PowerButtonVM**](docs/DefaultApi.md#powerbuttonvm) | **Put** /vm.power-button | Trigger a power button in the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**RebootVM**](docs/DefaultApi.md#rebootvm) | **Put** /vm.reboot | Reboot the VM instance.
*DefaultApi* | [**ResumeVM**](docs/DefaultApi.md#resumevm) | **Put** /vm.resume | Resume a previously paused VM instance.
*DefaultApi* | [**ShutdownVM**](docs/DefaultApi.md#shutdownvm) | **Put** /vm.shutdown | Shut the VM instance down.
*DefaultApi* | [**ShutdownVMM**](docs/DefaultApi.md#shutdownvmm) | **Put** /vmm.shutdown | Shuts the cloud-hypervisor VMM.
*DefaultApi* | [**VmAddDevicePut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmadddeviceput) | **Put** /vm.add-device | Add a new device to the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmAddDiskPut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmadddiskput) | **Put** /vm.add-disk | Add a new disk to the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmAddFsPut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmaddfsput) | **Put** /vm.add-fs | Add a new virtio-fs device to the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmAddNetPut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmaddnetput) | **Put** /vm.add-net | Add a new network device to the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmAddPmemPut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmaddpmemput) | **Put** /vm.add-pmem | Add a new pmem device to the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmAddVdpaPut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmaddvdpaput) | **Put** /vm.add-vdpa | Add a new vDPA device to the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmAddVsockPut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmaddvsockput) | **Put** /vm.add-vsock | Add a new vsock device to the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmCountersGet**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmcountersget) | **Get** /vm.counters | Get counters from the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmInfoGet**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vminfoget) | **Get** /vm.info | Returns general information about the cloud-hypervisor Virtual Machine (VM) instance.
*DefaultApi* | [**VmReceiveMigrationPut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmreceivemigrationput) | **Put** /vm.receive-migration | Receive a VM migration from URL
*DefaultApi* | [**VmRemoveDevicePut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmremovedeviceput) | **Put** /vm.remove-device | Remove a device from the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmResizePut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmresizeput) | **Put** /vm.resize | Resize the VM
*DefaultApi* | [**VmResizeZonePut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmresizezoneput) | **Put** /vm.resize-zone | Resize a memory zone
*DefaultApi* | [**VmRestorePut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmrestoreput) | **Put** /vm.restore | Restore a VM from a snapshot.
*DefaultApi* | [**VmSendMigrationPut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmsendmigrationput) | **Put** /vm.send-migration | Send a VM migration to URL
*DefaultApi* | [**VmSnapshotPut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmsnapshotput) | **Put** /vm.snapshot | Returns a VM snapshot.
*DefaultApi* | [**VmmPingGet**](docs/DefaultApi.md#vmmpingget) | **Get** /vmm.ping | Ping the VMM to check for API server availability


## Documentation For Models

 - [BalloonConfig](docs/BalloonConfig.md)
 - [CmdLineConfig](docs/CmdLineConfig.md)
 - [ConsoleConfig](docs/ConsoleConfig.md)
 - [CpuAffinity](docs/CpuAffinity.md)
 - [CpuFeatures](docs/CpuFeatures.md)
 - [CpuTopology](docs/CpuTopology.md)
 - [CpusConfig](docs/CpusConfig.md)
 - [DeviceConfig](docs/DeviceConfig.md)
 - [DeviceNode](docs/DeviceNode.md)
 - [DiskConfig](docs/DiskConfig.md)
 - [FsConfig](docs/FsConfig.md)
 - [InitramfsConfig](docs/InitramfsConfig.md)
 - [KernelConfig](docs/KernelConfig.md)
 - [MemoryConfig](docs/MemoryConfig.md)
 - [MemoryZoneConfig](docs/MemoryZoneConfig.md)
 - [NetConfig](docs/NetConfig.md)
 - [NumaConfig](docs/NumaConfig.md)
 - [NumaDistance](docs/NumaDistance.md)
 - [PciDeviceInfo](docs/PciDeviceInfo.md)
 - [PlatformConfig](docs/PlatformConfig.md)
 - [PmemConfig](docs/PmemConfig.md)
 - [RateLimiterConfig](docs/RateLimiterConfig.md)
 - [ReceiveMigrationData](docs/ReceiveMigrationData.md)
 - [RestoreConfig](docs/RestoreConfig.md)
 - [RngConfig](docs/RngConfig.md)
 - [SendMigrationData](docs/SendMigrationData.md)
 - [SgxEpcConfig](docs/SgxEpcConfig.md)
 - [TdxConfig](docs/TdxConfig.md)
 - [TokenBucket](docs/TokenBucket.md)
 - [VdpaConfig](docs/VdpaConfig.md)
 - [VmAddDevice](docs/VmAddDevice.md)
 - [VmConfig](docs/VmConfig.md)
 - [VmInfo](docs/VmInfo.md)
 - [VmRemoveDevice](docs/VmRemoveDevice.md)
 - [VmResize](docs/VmResize.md)
 - [VmResizeZone](docs/VmResizeZone.md)
 - [VmSnapshotConfig](docs/VmSnapshotConfig.md)
 - [VmmPingResponse](docs/VmmPingResponse.md)
 - [VsockConfig](docs/VsockConfig.md)


## Documentation For Authorization

 Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Documentation for Utility Methods

Due to the fact that model structure members are all pointers, this package contains
a number of utility functions to easily obtain pointers to values of basic types.
Each of these functions takes a value of the given basic type and returns a pointer to it:

* `PtrBool`
* `PtrInt`
* `PtrInt32`
* `PtrInt64`
* `PtrFloat`
* `PtrFloat32`
* `PtrFloat64`
* `PtrString`
* `PtrTime`

## Author



